---
title: Improving algorithms for the generation of polygonal and polyhedral meshes
subtitle: Fondecyt cod 1181506
authors:
- Nancy
date: '2018-01-01'
publishDate: '2023-11-23T02:17:01.226372Z'
publication_types:
- Fondecyt
publication: ''
abstract: '
This project aims to develop novel algorithms for generating polygonal and polyhedral meshes for applications in fracture mechanics, landscape representation, and geological simulations. These meshes offer advantages in representing complex geometries and reducing the number of cells compared to traditional triangular and tetrahedral meshes. The project will focus on developing algorithms for fitting domain geometries, refining and improving cells, and integrating these algorithms into a flexible mesh generator. Additionally, the project will explore parallelizing the algorithms on GPU architectures. The expected outcomes include novel algorithms for modeling complex problems more efficiently and accurately, as well as open-source software for the research and academic community.'


# Cover image
# To use, place an image named `featured.jpg/png` in your page's folder.
# Otherwise, specify the `filename` option to load an image from your `assets/media/` folder.
# Placement options: 1 = Full column width, 2 = Out-set, 3 = Screen-width
# Focal point options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
# Set `preview_only` to `true` to just use the image for thumbnails.
image:
  placement: 3
  caption: ''
  focal_point: 'TopRight'

---

# Project Abstract:

This project is centered on the design and implementation of novel polygonal and polyhedral meshing strategies that
can be used to solve several scientiﬁc and engineering problems such as fracture mechanics simulations in solid mechanics,
landscape representation for hydrological distributed modeling, and geological simulations, among others. In particular, for
fracture mechanics simulations, there exist two numerical methods that use this kind of meshes: polygonal/polyhedral ﬁnite
elements (pfem) and the virtual element method (vem). In the pfem, convex polygons/polyhedra are preferred due to the
limitation of shape function construction. This limitation is not present in the vem, where non-convex cells are equally usable.

Polygonal (polyhedral) meshes are 2D(3D) discretizations composed of polygons (polyhedra) of any number of sides(faces).
The mesh cells can obviously be triangles and rectangles (tetrahedra and hexahedra) wherever they are appropriate. Re-
cent works show that there is an increasing interest in the use of polygonal/polyhedral meshes, particularly because of their
extreme ﬂexibility in representing very complex domain geometries, reﬁning coarse cells, and de-reﬁning overly dense re-
gions. Additionally, polygonal/polyhedral meshes have the advantage that a proper mesh can be obtained with less cells
and points than in a triangular/tetrahedral mesh. To the best of our knowledge, since the numerical methods that handle
polygonal(polyhedral) meshes are no more than ten years old, no attempts have been made in designing algorithms for the
generation of polygonal/polyhedral meshes that fulﬁl both the ﬁtting of the domain geometry and the point density require-
ments, while reducing the number of points and cells as much as possible. Currently, the most used polygonal/polyhedral
cells are Voronoi regions or the ones generated by cutting triangles/quadrilaterals into polygons, because meshes composed
of this kind of cells can be built fastly, and thus the researchers can show the big potential of polygonal/polyhedral meshes without putting the main eﬀort in the whole mesh generation process.

The main goal of this project is to develop novel methods for the generation of polygonal/polyhedral meshes and compare
them with the traditional ones in terms of number of generated points and cells, computational time and memory, and
accuracy of the simulation results, among others. We propose to start with a polygonal/polyhedral mesh, that represents
exactly the domain geometry, and then reﬁne the polygonal(polyhedral) cells into convex or non-convex cells, depending on
the requirements of the used numerical method. We do not want to develop meshing algorithms for a speciﬁc numerical
method, but instead we plan to identify, model and implement diﬀerent reﬁnement/improvement criteria, that can be easily
interchanged so that a proper mesh for a speciﬁc method can be generated. Using this approach, the generated meshes can
also be extended to requirements of other applications such as geological simulations or hydrological distributed modeling.
We have already been working in the generation of mixed element meshes, and very recently in the generation of 3D
polyhedral Delaunay meshes for convex domains. Therefore, this project is not only a natural continuation of our previous
research but also challenges us to design novel strategies to create, improve and extend meshing algorithms for the gen-
eration of polygonal/polyhedral meshes. We plan to work in: (a) the design of strategies to ﬁt domain geometries with
polygonal/polyhedral cells, (b) the design of strategies to reﬁne, de-reﬁne and improve cells more eﬃciently than current
methods, and (c) the integration of these algorithms into a ﬂexible mesh generator. We also plan to improve the performance
of some algorithms by designing and implementing parallel solutions on gpu architectures, and if possible, to explore the
parallelization on other parallel architectures.
As result of this research, we expect to contribute with novel algorithms that will allow us to model complex problems
in less computational time and in a more accurate way than before. We also expect that these algorithms will be useful for
several applications that can be beneﬁt from polygonal/polyhedral meshes. The developed software will be left open-source, and available for free to the research and academic community.

# Project objectives:

General and specific goals
The main goal of this project is to propose novel strategies to generate polygonal/polyhedral meshes (Delaunay or not) that
can be useful for solving scientific and engineering problems such as the simulation of fracture mechanics with the vem and
the pfem the simulation of semiconductor devices and landscape representation for hydrological distributed modeling, among
others.
The specific goals planned to reach the general goal are:

  1. Identify, design new, encapsulate and develop quality metrics for polygonal/polyhedral elements to guide the refine-
  ment/improvement process of a mesh
  2. Design novel strategies for the generation of coarse but good initial polygonal/polyhedral meshes for complex domains
  3. Design novel/extend current refinement/improvement strategies to fulfil the point density requirements required by the
  used numerical method and the problem itself.
  4. Compare the generated meshes with triangle/tetrahedral meshes in terms of number of points/elements, accuracy of
  the simulation results and simulation time/memory, among other comparison criteria.
  5. Design and develop novel parallel algorithms to accelerate mesh generation and evaluation processes.



